hi everyone and welcome back to another
Weebly wizard tutorial today we're going
to be having a look at some popular home
page layouts and some tips on how to
make your home page look more
professional today there's two things
we're going to focus on firstly is icons
as you can see here on my home page
these little pictures that typically
represent something that you're trying
to say or a message or a call to action
and they are icons on your page and
there's a number of uses for icons and
in this instance here we've just used
them to represent what type of video I
have listed in in this description so
there's a number of uses for them
typically I find that they're good for
forgetting getting kind of a point
across that you're finding difficult to
capture in words or just to give another
dimension to your home page so that's an
example of icons on your home page and
I'll talk you through how I've set these
up and why I've done it this way another
thing you can do on your home page to
represent the message that you try to
convey is is the kind of tiny kind of
scale down banner now if I click through
to this website here this is voodoo an
events corporate events band in
melbourne australia and the home page
here you can see very similar in concept
but instead of the icon we've gone with
the kind of the small banner but how do
you know the space and how do you know
what size the banner should be which is
a good question there's a number of
tools I use to kind of get a scale or
idea of number of pixels that I need to
cover and the main tool I use I've added
just as a little kind of add-on or
plugin to my chrome browser and that's
at the top here and it's called measure
it I'll right click you can see their
measure it ! very simple to install but
basically if you click on this it gives
you a little crosshair and m it gives
you the ability to drag over any area of
the website that you're on and it gives
you a kind of a real-time snapshot of
the width and height in pixels so in
this instance I kind of I got the main
homepage going and I said right I want
to slot in a little banner here so I'm
going to measure over roughly where I
want it and I know it's going to be
about 275 in width and about 73 or 75 in
height then I go into my software
editing
and kind of graphics solution and then I
develop a little banner that goes into
the kind of space so very simple to do
relatively effective as you can see here
instead of an icon you can just kind of
click on the click on the banner and it
takes you through to that section of the
website so very useful and just adds
another dimension to the homepage a
little bit different icons so the
banners they're typically very simple to
simple to design as long as you have the
dimensions and you know what kind of
information you want to represent within
that banner it's relatively
self-explanatory but how do you come
across the icons do you design them do
you download them where can you get them
from all valid questions in this
instance here I purchased an icon set of
around about a thousand icons and they
cover everything literally everything
you could imagine that you'd want to use
on your website if you don't have them
or you don't have the money to buy them
there are this kind of resources
throughout the web that allow you to
download them for free now if I draw
your attention here to a website called
wdl or web design ledger mcom this is a
fantastic resource for anybody who's
designing websites or any kind of design
elements specifically for a website as
you can see here they cover everything
from you know kind of fresh free fonts
and they have tips on flex flexible and
web design inspiring pages at the top
they're all section taste of inspiration
resources tips tools and tutorials and
so forth but quite often they do feature
free icons and this here is a page they
have available at the moment which it
gives examples of ten super useful free
icon font sets and so basically they
list them down the page and it's a case
of you just scrolling down and kind of
picking which ones you think will suit
your website particularly well they tend
to be a little bit limited if they're
free the ones that you pay for I think
are around about you know 20 to 50 US
dollars depending on the quality and the
number that you get and the quite often
come is a Photoshop editable file and a
PNG and remember the tutorial are
covered on PNG's with the transparent
background so particularly useful for
your website they do vary in quality and
and the numbers that are included but I
recommend going in and having a look at
some and just trying some art when you
so for example this n typo and icon set
here immediately draws my the clean the
crisp they're not jet black the kind of
a gray color which is particularly
useful and there's a number in here that
i know would apply to websites that i
design so jump in download the free icon
packs and give it a go in this instance
here on this website and a lot of the
websites i design i'll usually go with a
2 3 or a 4 element column setting and
then within those i'll slop my two three
or four areas that i'd like to cover
typically with a header my icon and then
a brief description i'll usually justify
everything centered and then a call to
action whether it be watch a video will
click for more information or download
the fact sheet or whatever it may be
there's a number of ways you can do this
depending on how much information you
want to represent here you may go for a
four or a five column layout it's
entirely up to you in each website will
of course be different so just make sure
that the layout and the justification of
your text fits the theme of the website
and it looks clean and it does the job
for you and so there's two ideas for
your homepage and homepage is it's a
very important page of your website
obviously and I do get a lot of
questions around how can I make it look
more visually appealing and how do I
reduce my bounce rate which is a the
number of people that come on my website
then immediately leave so it's really
important that you keep them on your
website and bring them through from the
home page to other areas of your website
so that's a couple of ideas for you
obviously there are more like including
more kind of an image centric directions
or videos or moving parts whether it be
html5 or flash and but there's a number
of options there just to that we've had
a look at today so feel free to jump in
and give them a go like i say Weebly is
free so go in and make other websites
make test websites and play around the
HTML and play around with home page
layouts are really encourage you to do
that the more you play around and the
more you test the better you'll become
so that's all for today thanks for
watching remember to subscribe if you
haven't already click the like button
and we'll see you in the next video